We're talking to Ann Michaels, and these are all notes on the book.
I hope we use some of them.
Let's enter the discussion.
Maybe the way you've entered this book, how often is it that a poet does go... I mean, you can ask these questions, I know, but let's start there.
17 years ago, I guess you had the idea of 1980.
Is that what somebody... About 12 years ago that I started thinking about this book.
Yeah.
Oh, actually, no, that's true.
1980 was the first germ of the idea.
But the impulse, I guess.
Yeah, no, that's true.
It was spinning me for a long time before I actually sat down to work on it.
And the impulse was narrative?
It was fiction?
It was prose?
Is that right?
Well, the characters came to me very physically, very physically.
I had the beginning of the book, the end of the book, the end of the first part of the book, right from the start.
It wasn't my intention to write a novel for the sake of writing a novel.
But I realized that this material, for several reasons, would have to be told as a novel.
One reason is that I wanted to keep the reader company, accompany the reader through these journeys of both characters in a way that you can't do in poetry.
And it did have to be two characters.
Yes, definitely.
I mean, this seems to be where you're having trouble with your critics, by the way, the reviewers.
I'm sure you noticed they love your book.
Did you see Gail Caldwell's movie book on the Boston Globe?
I really hope that you must get it.
Yes, I haven't seen it yet.
I mean, it's magnificent.
And I have the greatest respect for Gail, I know, Gail.
asymmetrical form of the book with the two stories, absolutely crucial.
And the reviewers who have understood this have been, you know, there have been dissenters, yes, but there have been a lot of reviewers who have understood exactly what it's about, the form, and which, you know, for which I'm very grateful, because it was very...
carefully, very carefully, fall out.
I'm interested in this concept you can give us at the very first page.
Of course, I think of buried manuscripts and hidden manuscripts and notebooks.
This is the theme of my new book.
I'm really interested in the records that we keep to ourselves.
At the British Library two weeks ago, one of their great finds there,
from this Chinese cave, these manuscripts that they found going back a thousand years ago, 2000 years.
I love these, the Cairo Genesia, which is very, it's like garbage almost, but they're written things that really give a view of themselves.
Now, you're using this certainly as an image, but it's got to be more than that.
What is the premise for this whole
idea of these notebooks that he's searching for, that kind of significance, I guess.
A written record.
I'd enter it anywhere.
Maybe it's not a question, it's just a... I'm... I also am fascinated by the whole idea of manuscripts that we know were written but had never been found.
These kinds of fugitive pieces that we know that
so-and-so wrote a lost novel that she'd never found, or, you know, this idea of this sort of ghost realm of the ghost library.
You're talking about things that are really heating up right now.
I just love that idea.
There was a fugitive press, you know, in England during the... Really?
It was called the Fugitive Press.
They were on a run, and they were during the interregnary.
I write about it in my book, in The Gentle Madness, about this fellow who actually hid stuff and was going to send it to Holland, and he hid them at a table, a hollow table, and he was going to bury them on the ground.
And it now turns out to be the greatest, most significant record of that period, both sides of the issue.
you know, during that period in England, but what he collected were the outprints of the fugitive, what was known as the fugitive press.
So, I mean... Fabulous.
Anyway, I'm sorry.
I didn't know, but that's fabulous.
No, that's fabulous.
Yeah, but these weren't pieces that were hidden and forgotten, you know, so there is slightly different memory, but artifacts of itself.
Yes.
It has to be more than something that we pass on orally, I guess.
Well, it's very poignant to me that people kept records during the war.
They wrote things down.
They witnessed things.
The stories had to be told.
They felt the moral imperative to tell those stories.
literally literally buried them um hoping that they'd be found eventually is there evidence of this or is there something oh no absolutely absolutely um things hidden under floors floorboards and the great example of the one that survived yes how that has resonated that is
undoubtedly one of the most moving documents to come out of that horror, isn't it?
It's a little girl's diary, when you think about it.
It could very easily have gone into the record's vault, I guess.
That's right.
The idea that one would write it down, not knowing if it would ever, hoping that, like, you know,
the letter in the bottle that the shipwrecked person said don't have the disease.
Yeah.
Because there's a great faith in that, buried in that idea.
And a sense of morality that's beyond the here and now.
I mean, that these stories must be told, even if it takes a thousand years for them to be found.
I have a sense that everything has a meaning for you, and it's so significant that this person is a translator, for instance.
Yes, absolutely.
Every time I run into something, she's telling me something.
Language, communication, memory, documents.
The physical reality as opposed to, I mean, detail is very important.
The physical... Utterly.
Again, I'm not trying to review the book with you, but again, I'm looking for the things that go into it.
These are the toughest things to do, by the way, with novelists, because it is a creative thing.
I feel kind of dumb asking you what you were trying to accomplish, but it's my job to do that.
but we are looking for a future here.
Just go ahead and talk about the pull of the past, I feel.
Were you moved to write about the Holocaust as an event, or as a human exploration for you, or an infinite exploration?
I was haunted by
certain split-seconds of history which seemed completely impenetrable.
I think it is impossible to understand a huge historic event.
You can't embrace the whole and hope for any understanding, but if you perhaps enter through tiny
take a tiny root into it, then hopefully that will open up into a larger meaning.
And so, for me, there were clusters of events, clusters, moments, that I really wanted to try and penetrate for myself as a human being.
It seems to me that the question is more interesting to you than the answer.
Is that a fair statement?
Well, I don't think that a novel is a good place to give answers.
I think it's a good place to pose questions.
But the questions that you pose must be precise and
specific.
And finding the right question is often very difficult.
Are they questions that you feel comfortable with, that you have not be the answer, that some comprehension of what the answer could be?
Well, certainly when I started writing this, I had no idea that I would be able to come through the other side.
But I followed the characters, and they led me, definitely led me.
The characters did?
Mm-hmm.
And they were male characters, and that did intimidate you at all?
I didn't even think about it, because they came to me so vividly.
Can you see them visually?
Yes, I can see them visually.
Do you hear their voices?
Yes, and they just were men.
And the boy digging his
digging his bed every night into mud to save himself.
This is a very poignant image to me.
So, you know, I'd love to say there's some kind of politicized reason for choosing two male narrators, but in fact, that's just the way it came to me.
That's right.
And I've read in some of the interviews that you've done that I guess you did this in longhand, but you do some things in typewriter and you do some things in computer.
Is that right?
I mostly write longhand and put it into the computer now.
The typewriter is gathering dust in the corner.
Do you find that you can create stuff on the computer, or is it just more of a convenience thing?
Yeah.
It's just, once I've written it, I put it in and then move it around.
The celebration is... Yeah, it's always pen to paper for me.
Now, as a poet with two highly respected volumes of poetry, the words are so important to me, the word.
Did you find yourself feeling the same way and writing complements?
I think that's one of the reasons why it may have taken ten years to do.
I was, one of the reasons, another reason I was reluctant to start the novel is that I felt I was, I worried that I'd have to surrender a certain intensity of language, which I didn't really want to do.
But once I, once I just let
let myself write it the way I felt it needed to be written, then it was very liberating.
And the language itself, it's so important thematically.
It's redemptive.
It's powerful for the characters.
There's all kinds of discussion about the power of a single letter, the graffiti on the
on the walls in Athens, the resistance, the J stamped on a passport, goes the power of a single letter, also the notion that Jacob chooses English or finds in English an alphabet without memory, which gives him a chance to
really, for the first time, think and write about trauma.
Pursue that alphabet without memory.
Well, for him, he needs to speak of the things that are most painful, but he needs that little
that sense of a tiny gap of distance which English provides, because it's not the language in which these things occurred.
Well, does the translator, in a sense, make the work his own?
Oh, absolutely.
Is this your odyssey?
Is this Homer's odyssey?"
And what did he say?
And he said, every generation deserves a Homer of their own.
You deserve a Dante and you deserve a Shakespeare.
And he said, you know, I stretch the idiom.
I stretch Homer's idiom and I stretch mine.
I was just in Germany and someone was telling the story of how, I can't remember the writer now, I can't remember who it was,
It was in Norway or Sweden, and everyone there speaks impeccable English.
His book had just been translated.
My book sold well over there.
Oh, that's good.
That's good.
They all read it in English.
Well, he gave this reading, and it was half in Swedish and half in English, and afterwards, you know, he said, well, why did they translate this?
Everybody can read it in English, and perfectly.
And the publisher said, because we need to claim the book as our own.
So by putting it into their language, they were somehow claiming the book.
That's the phrase they used, embracing the book, which I thought was a lovely idea, actually.
In my book, I talk about this young man, which is kind of like
Johnny Applesey was desperate to save the Yiddish language by saving the books, which would be succeeding generations.
Nobody speaks Yiddish anymore, and so therefore they were throwing the books away.
It's a fascinating story.
He went out and gathered a million books in Yiddish.
Oh, yes.
It's a big library.
Well, it's not more than a library.
It's a warehouse out there.
Where is it?
It's out in Western Massachusetts.
And then he does seed libraries all over the world with these books and hope that the language will raise.
But it's kind of similar to what you're saying.
That's very beautiful, actually.
That's one of my very favorite parts of the book.
When you're talking about making it yours, you see, that's
But that's really a theme of the book, isn't it?
I mean, if it's lost, it's lost, isn't it?
Anything is lost, I guess.
Yeah, well, I think for, certainly for Jacob, there's a sense that there's no absence.
I think he says there's no absence if there's even a memory of absence.
I mean, of course, the ironies are there.
We have a kid coming out, and it's almost, of course, the appearance of a feral child.
In Greece, of course, Athos is where the gods lived.
And you're talking about calling from one total extreme to the other.
I'm sure these were mindful.
things on your part, I would think.
Oh, absolutely.
And the guy who survives the speakable circumstances of the Holocaust, you get killed by a car.
I mean, you talk about dumb luck, you know.
I mean, are we shooting craps with the gods here, or is it a little bit, it's a phrase, playing dice, gambling, shooting craps here?
Absolutely, I am.
I've seen guys and dolls.
This kind of arbitrariness of life, I mean, that's just, that's realistic.
And in fact, I mean, the point of that is partly reinforced by what Abbas says.
He says,
You know, we think that it's the small things that we can control, and not the large, but in fact it's the other way around.
It's the large human values that we have to, the values large enough to see that we have to enforce, because the small detail will elude us always.
We can't predict, you know, the car accident, the falling brick, the
But the large human values, those are the things that we have to preserve.
You know how you're jumping ahead to questions sometimes.
Go ahead.
It'll come to me.
Anyhow, that arbitrariness is very deliberate.
Give me a second.
There was one thing you said in one of your interviews, this isn't it, but was it in fact against the law in Nazi Germany to refer to Jews as human beings?
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, was this codified?
Yes, absolutely.
It was illegal.
You found evidence of that.
Because, of course, in this country it was illegal to teach people to read.
that that is even a deeper level of people in this reality, to say that they aren't even humans, you know.
I've never heard of that before.
This is very crucial to the whole, I mean the whole, all the detail, all the scientific detail, all the geology, everything in the book is tied to this one point, because if you say that man, if you reduce man to matter,
the human being.
I guess you'll take the gender out of it.
Yeah, that's fine.
Then, in order to rebuild the human, you have to start from where it's been reduced to, matter.
And this whole sense of, which is the core of his faith, when he finally reaches that point of believing that faith is
anatomical, since his whole... he ascends from that point of the book on.
But all the science as well is sort of reinforcing this idea on the miraculous
Because this isn't a reductive philosophy, it's miraculous.
And so the miracles of earth science, of weather, of all these things are miraculous matter.
You were born, I guess, in 1958?
Wow.
A full decade, and then some after the year.
How does it resonate with you?
When I was growing up, all the stories from the war were coming out.
The photographs were coming out.
It was all around.
You have no memory of it, so it is coming to you, isn't it?
secondary sources, so to speak.
I wonder if it would have been different had you lived through it.
I don't think I'm related to myself.
I was born at 43 when I came right there.
See, this is also the point.
That's who we're calling.
I'll see it be obvious, right?
But you'll have it coming out of my mouth.
It's very important to me that... It's very important that both characters are
profoundly, utterly shaped by events that they don't experience themselves.
What does this mean?
What are these invisible links between history and biography, between the past and the present?
I mean, Jacob's in hiding.
Events happen around him.
He doesn't know about them until afterwards.
So he's separated by space.
geographically.
But Ben, of course, separated through time, from the events through time.
And it's very, very crucial.
What are these links to the past?
What constitutes them?
And another point here, too, is that when the... that maybe the moral imperative is sort of shifting now, because whereas one could say how one can't write about these things because one did not experience them,
I think that that's changing now, that one must write about them because one hasn't, precisely because one hasn't experienced them.
And when the participants are gone, the questions are not going to die with them.
The questions remain.
They may become more enigmatic as a matter of time.
Maybe not, maybe not.
And we will...
I mean, wouldn't I love to ask Shakespeare questions?
Give me one hour.
I've asked this question to scholars.
If I gave you one hour from Shakespeare, what would you ask?
I asked this to Harold Bloom.
He said, oh, give me.
Let me think about this.
Yeah, that's right.
That's one interview you'd really have to prepare for.
But I said, well, I've got an hour.
Well, I'm going to give you an hour, the appointment, so really be very careful with your help.
Absolutely.
But you see, I mean, things that would have been so simple to answer while he was alive, you know.
I guess it's related to, you know, people die, but the questions linger.
It's almost harder to answer them as opposed to during the heat of the moment, so to speak.
See, I'm trained as a journalist, and I love to do interviews with people, and if I don't know something, I'll ask.
What's the recipe for this brownie?
How did you do this?
There's a very stupid analogy, but you know what I'm saying?
No.
Yeah, no, no.
Are we going crazy here?
No, no, no.
I don't mind.
But I think the questions are hard to answer at the time as well, because it's very hard to separate, you know, one's own involvement.
Okay.
Chris, I haven't read your poems, but I don't know.
Is there narrative in them?
There is narrative in them.
It's either a discrete narrative or quite an overt narrative.
And often, I've done a lot of work speaking through the voices of various
characters, only real historical figures, like Johannes Kepler, the mathematician of the 1600s.
So putting myself audaciously into Kepler's person, I mean, that kind of challenge to me is completely fantastic.
I mean, I just... Poetry and mathematics is really something.
But there must be poetry in the universe, I guess, and everything.
And he... What also fascinates me about him, which is also part of this book, is that there's a tremendous emotional... Ideas have a tremendous emotional quality.
That ideas and emotions are not separate.
And, um...
I think that one of the most powerful ideas have an emotional quality to them.
Making the transition from poetry, usually it's the other way around.
I mean, every novelist you talk to aspires to be a poet.
John Updike did nothing more than to be remembered as a poet.
Of course poetry, you know.
I mean, it's just a fact.
Everybody writes it, he knows how it works.
You know, any writer that you talk to that I've talked to hundreds, you know, maybe the ultimate achievement, I guess, creative achievement to beautiful poetry.
Do you feel, I'm curious as to the, you know, very rarely do you see a poet's step back, or maybe it's a parallel move in your future to do a novel?
I mean, is it a...?
Well, I mean... I'm asking the question delicately, I guess.
Yeah.
Each form has its own incredible challenges and tyrannies to
To write a literary novel is not, I would say, not any easier or harder than writing a poem, but poetry is
is demanding in completely different ways.
Do you find yourself going back from one to the other?
I think at least one of the collections came out while this work was in progress, is that right?
Yes, I've also written another book of pillow trees while I was working on, which hasn't been published yet.
Do you switch from one to the other with ease?
Well, I found that with this novel,
Some of it was so hard to write, so painful, that I kept pausing.
And I also really wanted to try and get as close to getting this right as possible.
There's no second chance.
You can't enter into this material lightly, and there's no second chance to get it right.
So you feel that the finished book is a finished book?
That's a totally different question.
That's a different question, and I know that.
Yeah.
So, I would put it aside, just to wait, and write poetry.
So, switching back and forth is, I mean,
I think that's a delicate thing to balance, and when you're really in the heat of writing one or the other, you can't—I can't—jump back and forth.
Now, what was that other—?
Well, the other question was just vaguely related, but I guess it anticipates this whole trend towards interacting with books, books in print and on paper.
It was a book, a finished book.
Yeah, but I mean, there are authors, very few, thank goodness, who will go back if the new edition is coming out.
Tim O'Brien is doing it, going after Cacciato, he's actually changing parts of that.
He told me, of course, then he had, he had, in fact, he got a letter from a teacher who was reading from the high cover and the students were reading the paper.
I said, wait a minute, there are differences here.
And I said, why?
He said, I have an obligation to make it as perfect as I can.
I said, Tim, that was you 20 years ago.
That's fine.
That's you, a different you.
I mean, do you agree with that?
It reminds me of a very good story, actually.
It's a totally different question, but I'm just curious to see it.
Well, John Fowles did that with the Magus.
I mean, that's one of the most famous examples.
Henry James did it with everything.
He went back to the New York edition.
He's not supposed to be writing prefaces anyway.
I mean, fools around with all the novels.
Is that right?
Fowles did it with the Magus?
I didn't know that.
Yes, he put out a whole new edition, a revised edition.
I mean, did he change it thematically, substantially?
I only read the revised edition.
I never read the original, so I don't know, but I think some of it is quite different.
But I had this wonderful experience of seeing Stephen Spender read, and his Oxford had put out his collective poems in massive telephone book-sized collection.
wonderful.
And he got up on stage and he started to read and he wanted to read chronologically.
So he was looking at poems written literally 35 years before.
And as he was reading, he took his pencil out.
It was changing words as he was reading.
And it was sort of like a collective gasp of horror from every writer in the audience.
He just thought, you know, 35 years, my God.
I did an interview with Stanley Kunitz last year.
I just prefer one of the National Book Awards.
And I asked him, as I asked you to describe the book, I said, give it to me.
And he made a change.
And then he said, well, he made a change in one of the poems.
This is the way it should be.
He said, isn't that amazing?
I said, thank you.
That makes sense.
First edition.
In one of the interviews you mentioned, a reading for you has been, what was the phrase that Jesus is?
There was a lot at stake, I guess you said, in the reader book.
And then this interview
I appreciate it asking you about what's at stake in writing the book.
We all know that, but I'm curious, what's at stake in reading the book?
Because you did say readers and letters.
Well, one would like to...one would hope that, I guess, the ideal reader
reads in order to be changed by what they read.
They want to be changed.
Do you think so?
By what they read.
The ideal reader?
The ideal.
Very important qualification.
Well, absolutely.
It's like Kafka's wonderful saying about, you know, a book must be the axe that breaks the frozen sea within us.
I mean, that's asking an awful lot of a book, for sure.
And it's asking an awful lot of the reader, for sure.
But it's a nice ideal to have in your mind.
I've been in an interview with Robert Coles just a couple months ago.
I love Coles.
He's a psychiatrist who went to the children.
Yes, I've read all his books.
I was going to talk about a tall story.
My mother used to say you have to have stories that you can live your lifetime.
And so when he's doing classics, the power of literature is to give you stories that you can live your life.
And he explained this.
And I loved that whole concept.
And I said, well, give me some examples.
I did.
It was magnificent.
A little tall story story.
Don't worry about it, we're getting plenty of good quotes.
The book does, you know, I do write about the book too.
We just put this together about two days a day after, forgive me for being, I should be a lot better prepared.
You know, we just put this interview together two days ago.
It's totally fine.
I told Lisa I'd love to do it, I'm going to be a philosopher, so let's put it together.
Can I call you if I have some questions?
Can I reach you if I'm just going to give you a phone number?
I probably won't, but if I have any questions, if you don't mind.
Actually, I'm on tour.
I'm going to be away for 10 days.
If this is going to happen within the next 10 days... It might.
I'm just thinking if there are questions I'd like to ask you for this book.
416.
480-9650.
It's unlisted.
I assure you, my database is sacred.
You would believe some of the telephone numbers in there.
But I would like to follow up on a couple of these things.
Have you been thinking or are you going to write about any of this whole notion of books on disk and what it means to
Do you have any opinions on that?
Well, it's a very ... talk about a ghost library, because there's a lot of technology now, which is completely already so old, even though it's not that old in years, that people don't understand the language.
They're actually specialists.
You're talking about the process by which... Oh, that's true.
You mean the way the material is stored, that you can't access.
That's right.
So there are these old experts who are being pulled out of retirement in order to read, just to gain access to this information.
Carol, who kindly agreed to draw on the wonderful knowledge that she has obtained about the Rivers of America period to give us the overview that I think we need as the baseline for the discussions that we have today.
We are allowed to applaud.
Thank you, John, and good morning to you all.
What joy it is for me to see so many of my friends and faithful correspondents gathered together to celebrate one of our country's finest literary praises, the service of America.
I'm sure all of you join me in thanking John Cole and the subject of the book with a generous recognition of the series.
I never think about this time.
I never come to Washington without thinking of Frederick Tutank, Elizabeth Book, The Fortelling, and of the nation's river, as it's been called.
One cannot help but expect a river to display such a large part in our nation's history
I am honored to set the stage for today's symposium, whether it be authors, illustrators, math makers, editors, and publishers who make and continue to make the series for the creature that it is.
Let's begin with the memory of a middle-aged lady of Canadian birth, a journalist, playwright, poet, a writer of children's adventure books,
She was a dreamer who thought that the history of her adopted timeline, which she called America, often be told at the Coast Guard.
It was the time of the Great Depression, 1935, when millions of Americans were struggling to fall.
The lady was Constance Lindsey Skinner.
Born in 1877, or perhaps 1879,
And she dreamt that the history of America would be told, not as an epic poem, not as a prose chronicle, but through the story of America's river.
In her essay, Rivers on America, she said, the natural rhythm, moving the pioneer life of America forward, was the rhythm of sewing water.
It is as the story of American river that the first project would be told.
And she said, she is great for the literary work to be written by novels and college.
With this elegant idea, Constance, one of these dinner, was at the stage for what is one of America's most interesting, successful, and enduring literary endeavors, the Rivers of America.
In 1934, Skinner found a publisher for her series, Farmer and Reinhardt.
With a bright, young, energetic staff, this was the right place, with the right spirit, for a new of her adventure.
Skinner was the same general editor.
She announced that the series would encompass 24 volumes.
Tenebeth, Cradle of American, Worcestershire I. Written by Robert T. Chrysler Coffin, a native of Maine, Tenebeth was published on June 14, 1937.
Coffin, a poet, novelist, biographer, essayist, and critic, was a perfect example of the talent, really the genius, in her wonderful experience.
Kennebec followed by going into her second printing in her first year.
Fraulein Reinhardt was fully committed to Skinner's ideas and time standards, she said.
They promoted the theory to heal and the enthusiasm.
Her essay, Rivers an American Book, was reprinted in pamphlet form and is included in many literature books.
Skinner selected some of the nation's best writers and illustrators for the series, but sadly, she lived to see only five of the books published.
She died in 1939 while editing the Manuscripts of the Hutchins by Carl Thornman less than five years after she could begin the series.
In 1940, Stephen Vincent Binet and Carl Palmer, both respected literary studios, were named as series editors.
The Wabash, by William E. Wilson, published that year, was the first Binet-Carmer-Scrivers book.
In selecting for the authors, the two authors maintain gender-high standards, naming, for example, Heidi Parker, James Branch Cattle, Edgar Lee Masters, Henry Staddle-Handy, and Henry Vestum, for folks in the series.
with the publication of Dr. Thomas B. Clarke, her award, The Kentucky, the 15th volume of the series in 1942, Far and Reinhardt wisely decided to promote the series as a whole, rather than the individual book, urging its readers to collect them all.
And I'm sure some book lovers do just that.
Let us take note that 55 years later, Dr. Clarke's book is still comprehensive.
The song book, Psalms of the Rivers of America, was published at this time in 1942.
It contained 121 songs associated with rivers and river people.
It was also at this time that the publisher issued the errant play, Map of the United States, a key part of a theory of emotion.
1943, the series received the first Publisher's Newsweek, Barry Thomas Award, as the best example of creative publishing for the year of 1943.
Over the years, 13 books were issued in special signings limited editions.
Many of these were promoted regionally.
The Brandywine, published in 1941, was written by Henry Stiegel-Handy and illustrated by the 23-year-old Andrew Weyer.
Hansley and Wife signed 650 copies for the Greenwood Book Shop of Women's Deleter, and there is a copy of this rather rare book indicated here signed by Hansley and Wife.
The report is now letter to me that he signed 1,000 sheets for the special edition of the family.
Other illustrations of Rivers' books include John Stewart-Surley, the Wisconsin, Ross Tantese, author and artist, Akilah, and Cotter River.
A.Y.
Jackson, one of Canada's receivers through the sevens of St.
Martin.
Nikolai Bachen, often described as an American old master of Colorado.
It was Lynn Ward, famous for his novels of Woodhead.
There was even a husband and wife, Donald Davidson, who wrote the two volumes of the Tennessee, and his wife, Teresa's chair, made a decision to illustrate it then.
The Tennessee is the only two-volume work in the Rivets area.
I should note also in the principal series of cartographers, George Ann and Raphael Glacchio, also that their special mentions were the excellence of their work.
Their map has kind of defined the subject.
When Stephen Bixen-Binet died in 1943, Herbie Allen was named general editor.
Allen's enormously successful novel, Anthony Eckert, had made him a little bit of a star.
If star or not, he took his editor seriously.
Karl Harmer, Binet's co-editor, had left the bar in Reinhardt briefly, but returned as Allen's co-editor.
It was about this time that Jean Crawford became associate editor of Edison's service series.
Many of the officers here today work with her on their roles.
Kirby Allen, a man of prodigious talent and energy, continued to write successful novels while editing Rivers' manuscript and creatively promoting the series.
He had home in New York and Florida to travel between them by trains and manage them at the same time to prepare for a spiritual life.
In 1945, with the war over, many rivers' authors, illustrators, and editors began to return to civilian life.
Four times paper choices were used, and the manufacturers and publications were with both success used.
John Farrar returned to his service in 1944, but before these years end, he left the firm who had founded, apparently over to pursue both the Reinhard brothers, Finley, Stanley, and Frederick.
Late the next year, 1945, he joined Roger Strauss and formed the publishing firm Farrar & Gun.
In December 1945, the Reinhardt renamed their firm Reinhardt & M Company, followed in Reinhardt's two offices.
The first members voted to bear the new Reinhardt Institute in California for college in 1946.
The Shawgrass, River of Western Asset, by John B. Cimenter, was published in 1948.
The Shawgrass, in Panama, is the only river in the series that is not in rural America.
In December 1949, Herbie Allen unexpectedly died of his historic home in the 60s.
He had edited 22 of the river's titles, 17 of which were published before he died.
Carl Palmer was a senior editor, and Gene Cromford was a senior editor until the series ended in 1974.
In the later years of the series, Palmer was a consulting editor.
Tate Barnes, who was the last editor of the series, started from 1967 until 1974.
Five days were the title for public during that series.
The Reinhard Ferns from a skillfully promoted series.
A good example is the promotion of the Ohio by Richard E. Vandenberg.
The book was heavily publicized around the Ohio River Valley.
The governors of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, and West Virginia proclaimed October 15, 1949, the day the book was published, Ohio's River Day.
President Truman signed a copy of the book, which was later co-signed by about 250 others, governors, mayors, city councilmen, and other members along the way.
I would love to remember that document.
The French Broad was published in 1955.
Now, or 40 years later, the French Broad has been reprinted at least eight times.
Rivers' books were published under the Reinhardt imprint from 1946 until 1960 when Reinhardt merged the Penn Colton Company and the John Seenowitz Company to form post-Reinhardt-Naston.
The last new Rivers title published by Reinhardt Company was the Merrimack by Raymond Colton.
The Merrimack was illustrated by Aaron Kessler, who appeared to be blind.
The first privilege title, published by the Colts, Reinhardt, and Blinken, was The Minnesotas Across the River by Evan Jones, which was illustrated by Harry Himes, who was also here in the morning.
The Minnesotas, college in 1962, was a 50-year-old experience.
In 1965, Pope Reinhardt and Winston published St.
Croix by James Taylor Gunn, which was illustrated by Gerald Hazard, author and illustrator for those years.
Hi, I love it by William Lee Ellis, published in 1966.
The UConn by Richard Matthews and the Elkast by Ruth Leach, who was published in 1968.
Mr. Ellis and Mr. Matthews are with us this morning, as it's George Miles to celebrate the LN.
Martha Sanborn wrote the last part in the series, The American, Frederick Elton Roger, 1928-16.
Pope Reinhardt was in the theater series in Missouri's completion in 1974.
From 1937 to 1974, 65 titles were published, and over those years, all were kept in print.
Two books in the series, the James and the Alabama City, were issued in the Islamic tradition and are counted as a set of values, part of the criminal trial service.
In the 1940s, Ford Rivers' book, the St.
Lawrence, Hatter River, the Hudson, and the Colorado, were published in our new circular exhibition.
In 1951, Four Rivers Books were published by the British publisher William Hodge & Company for distribution and sales in Great Virginia.
Barth Urban & Company and Toronto, a Canadian distributor of the river series, published two rivers pages, appraisers and a paperback edition of South Carolina.
More than a third of the 55-year results are still in print, mostly through the efforts of universities and regional professors.
The Rivers of America series, the product of Barbara and Reinhardt, Reinhardt & Helping, and Holtz, Reinhardt & Winston, is today the inheritance of Henry Holtz & Helping.
This fine publishing firm, the Serpent of the Periods 1, by Mario Kassel, the director of Central Square.
Henry Holtz & Helping has the most helpful to making connections with contacts and copyright information.
Tell a few words about my collections and my work.
I've been able to collect your books about 10 years ago.
It wasn't long before in real life there was no bibliography of theories and other histories.
In 1991, I began writing to any theory, authors, illustrators, or editors of designs, outlining the bibliography I hoped to write, and asking for relevant information.
A lot of you here this morning got that first textless letter.
I was simply astounded at the response of that speech.
Some were following, some were funny, all of their values and invaluable.
This was a control of people who were made as high as possible.
Sadly, some of the so-called community in those early days are never longer with us.
I decided that there was a story to tell and history to preserve.
Now, nearly six years later, I have finished the bibliographical description of more than 350 editions and printings of Riverport, written in publishing of three of the series, and completed biographical collections of 50 authors, $65 readers, three math majors, and perhaps a dozen editors and publishers.
My river collection now stands at more than a significant volume.
The river's authors, illustrators, editors, and book dealers who are here this morning, and others who could not join us, have been incredibly timed and helpful.
Many point out those friends.
I have a special thanks to Dr. Allen Mervyn Cloud of Nashville for his unflagged support and constant encouragement.
He is a true friend of the river.
My book will be a descriptive bibliography, not a literary analysis of the series or a sociological account of the time, but I believe that the published history and the biographies of the authors, illustrators, and painters I have included will carry the book well beyond the limits of conventional bibliography.
I hope so, because my objective has been to record the story of the men and women who created it.
Many of the rivers are out of print, and the rivers themselves have changed, some of the better, other systems of a careless society.
It is the account of a unique boy reported, illustrated, and edited by a talented and famous group of men and women during a time of unparalleled popular interest in America, and their work was gone.
From Kennebeth's cradle of Americans to the American River of El Dorado, from Maine, California, from 1937 to 1934, Constance and Heath's fair three has been their life.
The Rivers of America series stands as a monument of literary excellence and an enduring story of America, her people, and her workplace.
It is fitting, I think, that the first and last book in the series will end to those who have Americans in their titles for the series itself assuring Americans in every positive way.
Thank you, Carol.
We all know the knowledge and the effort and the love on which that she was built, really.
Her knowledge and Carol's drive and thoroughness as a collector, I think also contributed to the importance of
collecting the amateur spirit of the collector who, in fact, overcomes the professional in so many ways with enthusiasm and an overview of the importance of the series that I think is a magnificent contribution that she has made as a collector and now as a historian of her.
I'd like now to introduce Dr. Jane Billingham, who is our Librarian of Congress.
Dr. Billingham was the Librarian of Congress in 1987.
She is a strong advocate of the Library of Congress in every way, and very cool that she was able to join us today with Dr. Jane Billingham.
Hi, my name is John, and it's my great pleasure to have my belated voice and welcome to John and Hunter's family last night.
I'm sorry that I couldn't be living by here for the most of my case, but I'm sorry for the night.
but I, excuse me, particularly .
The mission will be set as a book.
Margaret, this is most exciting to me, and I think most important.
They're doing a lot of two sensations in there.
They're moving along to these two-sided boats, and we're trying to find two sides, I think they're able to bring them into the world, of course.
So people are getting exposed to that, some of the things that the world gives back in to the world, of course.
There are no subjects to have
because it is more important than the congregation of folks and the congregation of the district.